Hey, Brian.
Hey.
How's it going?
It's great.
It's going good.
Good.
And hey, everyone.
Thanks for being here.
Thanks for either being at the live stream or watching the live recording afterwards,
just knowing otherwise is a recording, but the unedited version.
All right, we ready to kick this off?
Yeah.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 456, recorded November 3rd, 2025.
I am Michael Kennedy.
And I am Brian Okken.
And Brian, I'm getting Guns N' Roses vibes.
It's raining outside.
It's November.
Come on.
Guns N' Roses?
That's one of their songs.
That's like, once they were kind of cool, then they became some other band that was more of like love ballads.
November Rain.
It's a Guns N' Roses song.
Oh, okay.
November Rain.
Okay.
Got it.
I'm like, it's rainy in the Northwest?
That's just not that much news.
No, hold on.
I got to go back.
We're going to do music.
That completely, entirely encompasses all of Pearl Jam,
all of Nirvana, all of Soundgarden, period.
Is November rain?
Or rainy in the Northwest?
No, rainy in the Northwest.
Like the whole grunge movement, right?
Yeah, definitely.
And I would just, I mean, look,
I'm getting some support from the audience here.
Rhett out there is already saying November rain
is one of the greatest rock ballads of all time.
And I agree.
Thank you, Rhett.
Although I will throw Tesla out there
as the greatest rock ballads of all time.
Banned.
All right.
Are we off track yet, Brian?
This episode was brought to you by us.
We've got a bunch of fun things.
We have Tesla the band, not the scientist, not the company.
We both have awesome books.
You should check them out.
Brian, yours has been around for a while.
I don't know if you're ever going to write another one, but we'll see.
And how many people write the second book, right?
I imagine that you might do something like this.
And my book's going really well, the Talk Python in production.
Like, hey, maybe we could do simplified, affordable, but still fast and professional
hosting of our apps without hyperscale clouds.
And 100 services and cloud engineers and all that.
And if you want to be part of this show live, you can join us live.
Are we changing times, Ryan?
It's 11 for good now, isn't it?
Well, as far as my work schedule goes right now, 11 works.
All right, everyone.
I just want you to know what I'm out here doing for you.
So I'm going to have to go back and edit 455 episodes where we said,
watch the live stream at Monday at 10 a.m.
I'm going to have to replace that with watch the live stream
at Monday at 11 a.m.
You're not actually going to do that, are you?
No, I'm not going to have to do that.
Not unless AI can do it for me.
That's not happening.
But going forward, if you want to join us for the live stream,
please do so at exactly this time, 11 a.m.
I'm sure there's some sort of time zone weirdness
because we just changed time.
But Pacific Standard Time until it becomes Daylight Time.
We'd love to have you.
We'd love people in the audience with feedback and thoughts
and all that kind of fun stuff.
Check out the newsletter.
It's really great.
We've been telling you about it.
Sign up, pythonbytes.fm.
I'll just go there and click the newsletter button.
All right, Brian.
What are you clicking first?
So I want to talk about some news that came out last week.
So there's...
Oh, on the wrong one.
There we go.
The PSF wanted to try to get some money from the National Science Foundation.
Actually, so this was in January of 2025.
There was a really kind of an interesting grant under the Safety, Security, and Privacy of Open Source Ecosystems Program,
which totally seems like a perfect thing for the PSF to try to get some money for Seth and others
to make sure that the PSF and Python code is all secure.
Yeah, especially, I think, the supply chain side, if I remember correctly.
Something like that.
However, and they put in a ton of work, and then our current administration says,
In order to get this money, you have to agree that you will basically not have any sort of diversity, anything is part of your whatever.
And, you know, what's going on?
You have to affirm that we do not and will not during the term of this Financial Assistance Award operate any programs or advance any or promote DEI or discriminatory equity, whatever.
All that normal, wacky politics stuff that's going on in the US right now.
Well, that's a tough bite for the PSF because it wouldn't just be the security stuff.
It would be everything the PSF does.
And in the mission statement, the mission statement of the Python Software Foundation
is to promote, protect, and advance the Python programming language
and to support and facilitate the growth of a diverse and international community
of Python programmers.
does that violate we don't know so they like you know checked with a bunch of people and
basically said it's too it's too risky because if the administration decides you violated it
they can take back the money even if you've already spent it um that's crazy and uh i'm glad
basically the psf said too too high of a risk and uh we're not going to do that so they um they said
No, they took back the proposal.
I think they basically were going to win it,
it's my understanding, like it was turned down 1.5 million,
which if you think about it is something like 25% of their revenue.
That's a really big, significant chunk.
Yeah, I mean, huge amount of money,
and a small amount of money for the National Science Foundation,
a huge amount of money for the PSF.
It's unfortunate, but anyway.
we're going to link to the
PSF announcement
but there's also
Simon Wilson has a
shorter and really good
write up
he's part of the decision
too and agrees with it
apparently it was unanimous
so he's on one of the
board members who voted to reject
the funding
and then there's also articles
from Mars Technica about this
because it's
big news. And also, The Register has an interesting article on it, so we'll link to those.
Yeah, that is a little bit more broad coverage of inside baseball and Python than we usually get.
Yeah, it's unfortunate too. So I'm going to bump up my donation to the PSF,
and there's a link in most of these, at least in the main article, and Simon Wilson has a link
there also if you'd like to if you think what they're doing is right and good stuff and i i
actually really love the what what well everybody does but um uh bringing seth on board was pretty
cool and he's doing some neat things with security and so so are other people so yeah anyway that's
that yeah more security is good for us but yeah it's gotta pay for it that's tricky okay let's
Let's jump over to talk about serialization.
And there is no funding or nothing in the serialization.
Just straight serialization, Brian.
So check this out.
One thing that's really popular--
I don't know if you've heard of them before, but Pydantic.
It's pretty popular.
Some people use it for-- they have JSON,
and they want to get into Python objects.
They use this thing called Pydantic.
Yeah, it's kind of a big deal.
It is.
But here's what the Pydantic things do.
They exchange JSON, right?
And JSON can be extremely verbose,
AKA takes a lot of memory during caching.
So let's suppose I have a list of 1,000 customers.
Each customer has a street address, country, postal code,
et cetera, et cetera, right?
Those words are repeated 1,000 times.
How many customers I said?
100, 1,000, whatever, right?
Those are very verbose.
It's great for humans.
way, way better than XML.
Thank you for XML mostly going away.
But it's still pretty verbose.
So when you say, maybe I want to use Pydantic models,
but then I want to store those things
in some kind of cached setup, right?
Like a Redist or a disk cache.
Like, man, I'm psyched about disk cache these days.
So many places I see that I can use it.
But if you put the JSON in there, then you're
taking up a lot of space.
So this project, announced on Reddit by Lucky2yan,
is called-- what's the actual project called?
It's called PyBintic?
Is it in Pydantic?
So binary Pydantic, which is interesting.
So it says, I built a compact binary serializer
for Pydantic models that dramatically reduces the RAM
and/or disk storage for caches compared to JSON.
The library is designed for high load systems
like Redis caching Valkey, if you're doing Redis,
you can also look at Valkey, where millions of models
are stored in memory and every byte matters.
It serializes Pydantic models into minimal binary formats
and deserializes them back with zero extra metadata overhead.
Cool.
If you look-- is there a graph here?
No, there is the graph on the GitHub page.
So there is a graph about the size,
but it's something like seven times smaller.
There's a bunch here.
Let's look.
It compares to JSON, which is, let's say, 35 gigs.
And then Pybantic--
I'm having problems here--
is 4.6, which is like nine, eight times smaller than JSON.
But that's pretty interesting.
But here's what is actually really crazy.
It's also four times smaller than MessagePack, five times
smaller than binary JSON, and half as big as Protobuf.
Oh, interesting.
And Rhett out there is right there.
Thank you, Rhett, for the handoff.
So why not just use Protobuf?
Well, it's twice as small.
So it depends how much you are really worried about that,
right, and how much do you want to just serialize
your bidentic models.
So anyway, I thought this was interesting in a way
that it would say, look, maybe we don't just necessarily
store everything in JSON.
Maybe use this Pybantic thing.
Or maybe, as Rhett is pointing out in the audience,
maybe you want something more interchangeable and more well
known, use protobuf.
So it's a chance to talk about this new project, which
is interesting, but also just to talk about there's
interesting well-known serialization formats
that you can use.
Yeah.
And I think we can get those numbers better.
If we like, we come up with a benchmark with really long names.
Yeah.
Like Boolean objects that are just like the street that I lived on when I was a kid.
Underscore.
Yeah.
Street that I lived on underscore kid as a kid confirmed true or false and so on.
Right.
Yeah.
We could crush it in anything that drops the.
Drop it.
So yeah, someone else out there said,
all these things sound kind of interesting
until you need to open up a REST client and debug the API.
Yes, that's true.
And I don't believe that this is necessarily an API exchange
format.
This is a caching story.
Right?
If I'm going to write it to disk cache or to Redis or Valkey,
I'm probably not going to look at it.
I'm just going, is it still there,
or do I just throw it away?
Maybe you do, but maybe you don't.
Anyway, yes, everyone has pointed out
that there are certainly trade-offs of binary data,
but I think it's pretty interesting.
Look, the thing is, often the very first limit you hit
when you're in any sort of cloud computing environment
is way, way sooner memory than CPU.
Memory is so much more expensive than CPU,
and this can give you half, five times less,
scale in that regard. So you might be, you know, that's where you start. This is not when I'm just
like prototyping my app, like, let's start with this, right? This is where you're like,
we could go from a $1,000 server to a $50 server if we didn't have to store this much stuff in
memory for caching and it would still be faster, whatever, you know, that kind of thing.
Yeah. Yeah. And there's still like, I don't know if this would be useful in those cases,
but there's still non-web cases where memory is important.
Oh, Brian, what are you talking about?
Internet things and stuff like that, embedded systems.
There's stuff other than the web? No.
I know. I'm an old, crufty guy that actually programs things.
Crazy. No, here. What's your next thing? Tell us about it.
Okay. Well, this is t-strings. These are new.
Actually, we've talked about t-strings before.
But now everybody can play with them because 3.14 is out.
Yeah, they're officially a thing.
But they're a little, I think we're going to cover them probably a few more times
because they're a little bit harder to get your head around than everything else before.
So I really appreciate, there's an article from Trey Hunter,
T-String's Python's fifth string formatting technique.
There should be one and only one way to do things unless it has to do with strings.
Yeah, or lots of other things.
Or paths, or what else are we going to talk about?
So one of the cool things is, and I haven't really thought about this, is the history of string formatting.
He goes through a very brief history.
Percent strings, I kind of remember those.
Yeah, I totally remember using those.
Like percent s, and then percent, and then the tuple to fill them in and stuff.
So those sorts of template strings.
You've got string.template, which I actually, to tell you the truth, that came in in 2.4.
And I don't think I ever used it because by 2.6, we had.format.
So Python, the.format, we used a lot.
I used that a lot over the years.
It's still a useful one, actually.
Yeah, definitely.
And also in a lot of places where you might grab t-strings now, they're still pretty useful
because you can pass those around pretty well
and then format them later.
And that's sort of that delayed actually formatting part
where t-strings are going to be really cool.
So then we have f-strings, of course,
and everybody loves f-strings.
I love them.
And what's interesting is I still think of f-strings as a new thing,
but they came in at 3.6.
That was so long ago.
I know.
That was real long ago.
It's wacky.
And then 314 has t-strings.
And the different thing about t-strings is they return a template.
They do not return a string.
So they are different beasts.
But the cool thing is, well, so why would you use them?
We've talked about this before, but I kind of like that Trey took a whack at explaining this.
They're more like you might want to use, I don't remember if he said it or somebody else.
It'll be very useful for library authors and framework people to be using t-strings.
Not sure how many people, like, in your own code you'll use it,
because f-strings are still pretty cool in format.
But he gives an example of a dedent function that is...
The issue with f-strings is the when you...
Like, that the interpolation of filling in the variables happens earlier,
and you can delay it with templates, essentially.
is what we're talking about.
And he goes through a DDent example.
And I actually, I'm going to have to just play with it more
because I still got lost.
But this is a good attempt, and I think this is cool.
And then one of the neat things, I love it when people do this,
is why not, if you're used to popping things on PyPI,
he went ahead and called this better DDent and his example
and threw it up on PyPI.
So if you want to play with what he came up with,
you can just install it, run it.
Okay.
Yeah, very fun.
I feel like he should create
not just a bunch of separate little things
that are for his examples,
but like a mega,
like a morsels with a complex CLI
that lets you dive into the different examples.
I mean, he would have,
but the grant got canceled.
Oh, I see.
Well, it's only the security features
make it oh yeah right never mind no that's actually a decent idea like because he's got a lot
of uh he's got a lot of stuff cool stuff on the python morsel site so yeah for sure like some
yeah for sure okay let's talk about something called cron uh cron board speaking of putting up
up at like a TUI or a CLI sort of thing.
So Brian, how many cron jobs have you done?
At this time?
They have weird syntax.
I don't know if you're familiar with it,
but they have really weird little syntax
that you can put in.
I don't know if there's a good example on this thing,
but like star, star, seven, star.
Like it's kind of hard to figure out all the pieces,
understand what they mean, see what ones are on your machine,
so on. So this thing called CronBoard is a terminal app written with textual and
rich that is basically a shell friendly or SSH friendly tool for understanding
and using like look at telling me like what particular things are on here as a
cron job, what are their settings, you can see like it's 10 that a 1-10 star star
star three star and actually the little thing validates the expression how often that actually
means that runs and so on isn't this cool yeah it is cool yeah yeah i always have to use some sort
of tool to figure this out because i know i'm like no i'm gonna get it wrong look it's so messy it's
so weird i admire the old gray beards that used to be able to just do this in their head or on
paper but yeah not me that's right like this could definitely qualify for it's some form of elvish
joke yeah right i mean we put it on regular expressions but it could be on cron job expressions
as well yeah anyway that's all there is to it there's not a whole lot to say about it it's
written in python which is fun so do you have do you have um thinking about why you chose this
maybe just for the fun of it but do you do you have uh cron jobs in what you're doing on talk
done? Not exactly. I sort of do, but a lot of it is like background. I think it's more like a
background task that checks every hour. And so I've kind of kept it to that because I don't know.
I like, I'm sure people get this vibe about me, but like, I like stuff more cohesive and stuck
together and just like focused and not all spread out all over the place. Like, okay, so this script
runs on that cron job and then this part checks the database and this thing over here, you know
what I mean?
Like, so if I can cram it together and go,
the part that needs that can also just run like a background
thread and every now and then just go,
does that need checked or rebuilt or reindexed or whatever?
But I could certainly see places where if I was more comfortable
with cron jobs, I would do a better job with them
and things would probably be simpler.
So there's that.
Yeah, cron board.
Check it out.
Looks fun.
Cool.
We're on to extras.
You're the only extra.
I got nothing
okay well
there's some exciting news
I just heard this morning
oh because it just happened this morning
Barry Warsaw announced
and
PEP 810
explicit lazy imports we've been talking about this
for a while and it was
not approved yet it was just
a draft but it is approved now
so steering council
happily
and unanimously
accepted A10 explicit lazy imports.
They have some input for the authors,
but basically it's a really nice commentary.
A revise and resubmit sort of acceptance from the academic side.
Like, we'll take it, but not as it is.
Yeah, it's okay.
Well, I mean, but that's kind of one of the cool things
about the steering council,
because you can do things like when you submit something,
you can, like, as this is done.
And actually, this was a really well-written, I thought, well-written PEP.
But you can say things like, there's a few points like what keyword to use.
The PEP authors liked lazy, but there were a couple of other options.
And the steering council went through and tried to figure out if they could come up with a better name.
I mean, if there's options, why not give it to the steering council and say, you guys can decide if you want.
But yeah, so pretty cool.
I wonder what that means for anybody
that has a global variable named lazy,
in terms of compatibility.
I mean, it would be fine as long as they don't use it
in the import statement.
I think it probably would not do anything at all.
I know the early Python parser had a hard time
with disambiguating that kind of stuff.
but I think maybe the peg parser is more advanced.
Well, I know the peg parser is more advanced.
Maybe it can handle it.
Like in C#, they have certain words
that they themselves are not keywords,
but taken as a pair, they are keywords.
Like lazy space import.
So in C#, you have yield return is a keyword thing,
but you can have a variable named yield as well,
and they will be understood as different by the parser.
And I think that that was not true in early Python,
but I could be wrong about that.
Well, luckily we have listeners,
and Hugo is listening, which is great,
and in the chat says lazy will be a soft keyword,
so you could reuse it later.
Okay, good.
And also I forgot to give Hugo a shout out.
That is his post on social media that announced that.
The reason why I saw the announcement was from Hugo.
So thanks, Hugo.
Yeah, awesome.
And thanks for all the stuff, Hugo.
You give us a lot of good pointers, either directly or just by writing.
Okay.
Cool.
Yeah, so I think I'm excited about it.
The other thing, which this is me not reading the  PEP end-to-end,
but I'm going to be curious to see how it unfolds with typing.
Because I know that you highlighted it.
I can say if type checking, then you can do regular imports
versus lazy imports.
But if the next line I write is my function
takes an object of one of the things that was lazily imported,
does that execute its import effectively?
I don't know.
We're going to find out.
We'll find out?
I'm guessing the steering council probably thought about that.
I do.
I would say so because that was a real big problem
when they were trying to change the way imports worked a little bit earlier
for things like Pydantic, you know, bringing that back around, right?
They're like, oh, this is going to be really bad.
We won't know what things are anymore.
Help.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Okay.
So that's the really big news for everybody.
And then I have really big news that mostly applies to me.
The big news is that I've started writing again.
And I've actually decided I am a big proponent of lean, lean, like lean philosophy and everything.
And part of lean is actually just getting the whole pipeline, the entire chain from top to bottom in place early.
And so I've decided to do that with the book.
So the entire purchase process, at least for this, is already in place.
I've got a lean TDD site up.
There's actually a table of contents figured out already.
I've got, I know what I'm going to write.
There's not much there yet.
There's like 10 pages written of introduction.
But if you want to get updates every time I go through it,
you can go ahead and grab a copy if you want.
And I'll send you, well, the system will send you updates every time I have something new.
Also, it took me, what, a year?
The process from I want to write a book to it's out for the Python testing with pytest for both editions was a year and a half.
I don't want to take that long.
I'd like to get this one through the first draft and a pretty good state of a first draft.
It would be more like a beta thing by the end of the year.
That's my goal.
Awesome.
Congratulations.
That's awesome.
Thanks.
Also, with all of this extra junk around, like getting a landing page and all that stuff,
it wasn't tons of work, but it takes away from writing.
So I'm glad that I can get back to writing and get this thing kicked out.
Yeah, people don't necessarily, even when it's your project,
you don't think about how much those little extra things are going to take.
It's like, oh, I can just put this app up and, oh, people have to reset their password.
Oh, that means I got to support email.
Oh, okay, well, how am I going to do email?
I don't want to send email, but here I am writing an email service because apparently people have to log in or something.
Yeah, and I'm also reviewing it.
One of the things I didn't – I'm not thrilled with how the pytest book shows up on Kindles.
So I'm checking out the book from a Kindle.
That's where I'm doing my proofreading to make sure that that's like an e-book first way to produce the book.
Yeah, awesome.
I love it.
All right, cool.
How about something funny?
Yeah, let's round it out with a joke, huh?
Yeah.
Okay, so we used to talk a lot about Stack Overflow.
And Stack Overflow had this reputation, still does,
just we talk about it less,
that Stack Overflow people were kind of mean.
You'd ask a question.
Well, the people in Stack Overflow,
I think the actual Stack Overflow people were fine.
Yeah, I mean the community members.
A lot of the people, they would be quick to judge,
quick to say that question's already been asked and answered.
It was asked three years ago.
You know, not amazing, right?
And it can be really daunting, especially newcomers.
And so the feel for Stack Overflow might be,
you're absolutely wrong, might be a subtitle.
Right?
But these days, no, we can feel all good about it.
You're absolutely right, says ChatGPT.
See, it's good to be a programmer now because instead of you're absolutely wrong,
you're absolutely right.
They both could be wrong.
But they're sure that you're wrong or you're right, depending on who you ask.
Yeah.
You know, my daughter even ran into that.
She was stuck on some chemistry homework.
And she asked ChatGPT to ask something.
I don't know.
I think it was ChatGPT.
And she got an answer back.
She's like, that just doesn't look right.
And it said, oh, you're right.
It's wrong.
And then it came up with a different answer.
And she's like, this is ridiculous.
How do I trust it then?
Yeah, exactly.
I do think that's why it works better for programmers
than for many other groups.
Because you can run the code and at least see if it runs
or doesn't run.
And that's a form of a check.
Or if you're doing some compiling,
see if it compiles or parses or whatever whereas if it does like a chemistry theory you're like well
i guess i could do a year's worth of research and see if this is right or wrong but i don't know
you know i mean go to the lab and start right doing experiments like it's just it's just the
the feedback loop is real quick for us so but it's still you're absolutely right like no
i'm actually wrong just what are you doing anyway we live in weird times here's a fun joke about it
Yeah.
Oh, I'm going to grab the screen again.
Oh, I already took it down.
Never mind.
I'll do an extra next week, another extra.
All right.
Well, with that, we're going to have something to look forward to, right?
Yeah.
So, cool.
All right.
Catch you later.
Bye, Brian.
Thanks, everyone.